I’d like you to use your imagination
for a moment.
Think back to when you were having
a conversation
with someone who you respect,
and they’re in a position of authority.
Now, during the conversation,
this person says to you
(coming up to certain points),
and they say: “Remember.
I want you to remember this.”
Well, this is what Jehovah has done for us
in this symposium.
When somebody says “remember,”
then most people stop and they refocus
and concentrate even more.
So, what does Jehovah want us to remember
with this specific part?
Well, many people who are not religious
can acquire faith.
And you think about how every year
there are people
who were atheists or agnostics
that have come into the truth.
So the lesson in this part is this:
Do not hold back
from witnessing to people
who are nonreligious.
You don’t want to take the position
as if we’re the judge of this:
‘Oh, they wouldn’t be interested
—they’re an atheist; they’re an agnostic;
they’re wrapped up with materialism.’
That’s not our position to take.
We want to be individuals
who Jehovah believes will try to help
these nonreligious individuals.
Now, notice what Paul writes here
in Romans chapter 10.
And you’ll find out
how some have changed their mind
after an exposure to the truth
and to Jehovah’s teaching.
And the only way
that they could acquire faith
is when this is done.
Now, notice carefully and pay attention,
Romans 10:13-15:
“For ‘everyone who calls
on the name of Jehovah
“will be saved.’
“However, how will they call on him
“if they have not put faith in him?
“How, in turn, will they put faith in him
“about whom they have not heard?
“How, in turn, will they hear
“without someone to preach?
“How, in turn, will they preach
“unless they have been sent out?
“Just as it is written:
“‘How beautiful are the feet
“‘of those who declare good news
of good things!’”
Isn’t that beautiful?
This is how an individual acquires faith,
by answering these questions
—very penetrating questions—
that all of us want to remember
when it comes to witnessing to people
who are nonreligious.
They need someone
to share the good news with them
but to do it in such a way
that touches their heart.
And keep that in mind.
It isn’t always just what we say;
it’s how we say it that matters.
Somebody has to share
the good news with them
if they’re going to acquire faith.
So the question arises here,
How can we share Bible truths in a way
that nonreligious people
are more likely to accept?
Good question.
So in helping nonreligious people
acquire faith,
there’s an important point
that the apostle Paul shared with us
in his first letter to the Corinthians.
So find 1 Corinthians
chapter 9, if you would, please
—1 Corinthians chapter 9.
Now notice the 22nd verse:
“To the weak I became weak,
“in order to gain the weak.
“I have become all things
to people of all sorts,
“so that I might by all possible means
save some.”
Isn’t that beautiful?
What a beautiful example the apostle Paul was
with adapting to his audience!
He’d speak one way to the Jews,
referencing the Hebrew Scriptures,
and then different to the Greeks,
who didn’t know about Jehovah God.
So the message is
to speak to them about topics
that might interest them.
And we had to share this issue with you.
The July 2019, Watchtower,
pages 22-23.
And these are some points
that you can keep in mind
when it comes to witnessing
to nonreligious people
—very, very good advice.
Notice the point here
when it comes to nature.
A lot of people, they might even be
atheists or agnostics,
love nature.
So using that as a basis
to have a conversation
is the course of wisdom.
You might say something like:
“You probably know
“that many inventions came about
“when scientists copied things
that already existed in nature.
“For instance, microphone designers
“study ears,
“and camera designers study eyes.
“What comes to your mind
when you think of nature?
“Do you think that it is a marvelous force,
a person, or something else?”
Now listen attentively
when you ask questions like that.
And then add, maybe:
“When engineers learn
from the design of ears and eyes,
“we might wonder whom they are learning from.
I was intrigued by something
an ancient poet [said].”
Now, this is wise because the poet is
the psalmist from Psalm 94:9, 10.
But you could say ancient poet.
That’s appropriate.
And here’s the quote:
“The One who made the ear, can he not hear?
“The One who formed the eye,
can he not see?
. . . He is the One who imparts knowledge
to people!”
Isn’t that beautiful?
Good questions to ask and discuss
with nonreligious people.
And then we have
the marvelous website, jw.org;
we’ve got
the “Viewpoints on the Origin of Life,”
a number of videos that can help them.
Now, at the same time, we want to have
compassion, empathy,
and try to reach their heart.
And there were some key points,
just to pass them on to you
(you want to keep in mind talking
—giving a witness to nonreligious people):
Be positive.
Keep in mind that “every year
there are nonreligious people
who [have] become Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
This is important.
Be kind and tactful,
because people will listen
‘not just because of what we say,
but how we say it.’
If you’re going to reach a heart,
speak from the heart.
So be kind and tactful,
and imitate Jesus in the way he witnessed.
Such compassion and love was always evident.
And then this point:
Be understanding and listen.
It’s so crucial to remember to listen.
Sometimes (and sincere Witnesses do it),
we talk too much.
We ask a question,
and they have two seconds to answer.
Next thing, we’re talking already,
but you have to listen.
People are not being listened to today.
Don’t let that be us.
Be understanding and listen to them.
Let them express themselves,
so that you show you have
empathy and love for them.
So keep these thoughts in mind,
and Jehovah will bless your efforts.
In fact, in the following video,
notice what has attracted nonreligious people
to the truth.
My family were nonpracticing Catholics,
so I was never taught to believe in God.
I trusted my teachers more than anyone else,
so I accepted
and loved the theory of evolution.
When I was 19, a childhood friend
who had become one
of Jehovah’s Witnesses started to call on me.
I liked talking to him, but when
he spoke to me about God, I told him,
“Please, stop talking about God
because I don’t believe in him.”
He never gave up on me.
He asked, “Why won’t you,
just for a moment,
entertain a conversation about God?”
This question made me think.
I had rejected his arguments
without even listening to them.
I didn’t want to give the impression
of being arrogant or stubborn.
So I thought, ‘Why not let him speak?’
He used the book Life—How Did It Get Here?
By Evolution or by Creation?
It was as if a veil
had been lifted from my eyes.
That was the moment Jehovah
introduced himself to me.
Finally, I understood
that my life has a purpose.
I regret that I didn’t know Jehovah
for the first 20 years of my life.
My relationship with Jehovah is without doubt
the most precious thing I have.
I am determined to witness
about Jehovah to everyone I meet,
especially to those without faith,
so that they too can appreciate
the wonderful qualities of our Creator.
Yes.
Nonreligious people are accepting the truth.
They can acquire faith,
and those beautiful experiences
prove that point.
So again we say, “Remember
—Faithless People Can Acquire Faith!”
You think back to the Ninevites,
Jesus’ fleshly brothers, and prominent Jews
—they all made great changes.
And today as in the past,
here’s what is happening
as mentioned here in 1 Timothy chapter 2
—1 Timothy chapter 2,
where it mentions in the fourth verse
about Jehovah’s will:
“. . . whose will is that all sorts of people
should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.”
That’s Jehovah’s will.
We’ve dedicated our lives to him
to do Jehovah’s will.
So all sorts of people
are acquiring faith in Jehovah
year after year.
So we encourage you to give
a bold but tactful witness
to your unbelieving relatives
as well as to prominent ones
and to nonreligious people.
Now, as we continue to preach to all,
Jehovah will make it grow.
Jehovah will bless our efforts.
Remember, Jehovah can stir
the hearts of any person
and cause them to acquire faith.